[MUSIC PLAYING]
REGINA MEREDITH: It's
the dance of energy
between the environment, our
bodies, our minds, past lives,
chakras, and our
auras that determines
the quality of our lives.
If we continue to address only
one aspect of an intolerance
or imbalance, we do so at the
expense of our total health
and well-being.
Cyndi Dale, known to most
of us for her research
and her publications
in the field of chakras
now expands that
story in her new book
called "Energy Healing," which
kind of brings it all together,
doesn't it?
CYNDI DALE: It does, especially
that we're in a traumatic time.
REGINA: We certainly are.
And we're going to
dive right into that
and then kind of
back into our story.
But first of all, I just want
to say how much I appreciate
the fact that you do
such incredible research
and due diligence.
I mean, you really
approach your subject
in about as academic a way as
you can without losing people
where they can't hang
in there with you.
And that's hard work, and I
really have a lot of respect
for what you do.
DALE: Thank you.
It is hard work.
REGINA: Yes.
DALE: But we're
scientific creatures.
We have done a lot of
research to figure out,
at least to some level,
how the universe functions,
how the body functions,
how the mind functions.
And so I think we need to
tap into all sides of energy,
not just the subtle, not
just the woo-woo, not just
the chakras that are still a
little bit difficult to prove
the terms of their existence.
But there are some
things we know,
so why not draw on that too?
REGINA: Yes.
And we're going to
get to that in a bit
because in your chakra
system, it's 1 through 12, OK,
and in the auric system, in the
rings and fields of the aura,
1 through 12.
And there's some
surprising things
in that part of your story.
I like the eighth one, the
eighth ring in the aura.
DALE: I love the eighth ring.
REGINA: Yeah, we're
going to talk about that.
DALE: We'll just go there.
That's a fun one.
REGINA: We will talk about that.
But meanwhile, let's
talk about the fact--
because you mentioned
this in your work--
that it appears that humanity
seems to still learn best
through trauma, and we're in
a state of great, great trauma
on so many levels right now.
Your take on it.
DALE: I know.
It's sad.
I feel sad about it.
I see this sometimes
with individual clients,
that they need to keep
learning through trauma,
and hardship, and trying the
same thing over and over.
And we all have that penchant,
but humanity as a whole--
think about how many eras
we've existed on this planet--
and they've all ended in
destruction-- and how many
beautiful cultures
seem to get wiped away,
and art forms get destroyed.
So we do mainly
learn through trauma.
I don't think we need to.
I think we need to take
a stand individually
and, in whatever culture we live
in, to say, no, it's enough.
And to me, that's on us.
And the only way, I think,
we're going to get there--
so an individual
voice can say no--
is to know it's on us, as
individuals, to say, no more.
I want to learn through grace.
I want to give grace.
I want to do something
that's about love in motion.
And I believe, too, the only
way we're going to get there
is to say, OK, if it's on me,
Cyndi, then it has to be in me
to do that.
REGINA: Absolutely, because
this is a maturity issue.
As a species, we have
not matured to the extent
where we can honestly
evaluate ourselves
and what's going on around
us and our interface with us,
and oftentimes, not take the
responsibility needed to be
able to have a higher outcome.
And sometimes it
requires a little work
and a little discipline to boot.
And we're not really down with
that, as a species, per se,
which is really--
you're right-- it's all on us.
And this seems to
me, we're being
given an amazing
opportunity now to mature.
DALE: We are.
And are we going to
as an individual?
If it's on us, it's in us.
I just like that phrase.
REGINA: Yeah.
DALE: It means I've set
myself up for this experience.
REGINA: Yes.
DALE: I don't believe we
cause everything in our world.
I mean, I'm not responsible
for what everybody else does,
but I am responsible
for what I do.
REGINA: Right.
DALE: And every city
is responsible for what
it's doing, the decisions
it's making, every country.
REGINA: Yeah.
DALE: Each person--
well and we probably
don't need each
person, to be honest.
Most of us know the story
of the hundredth monkey,
that when you get to a certain
percentage, things flash.
They get to change.
But I want to be
part of the change.
I want to help other people
be part of the change.
And it's not about what we say.
It's not.
We can say anything we want.
We can meditate.
We can pray.
You can do whatever
you want, but it's
what energy you're sending
out and what you're actually
accomplishing with it.
How aligned are you
with what you think?
REGINA: Right.
I agree with you.
And I just see it as
an amazing opportunity
to rethink, slow down,
rethink for a minute,
and then reapply ourselves in
a good direction for ourselves,
and ideally, even for others.
So we're on the
same page on that.
So now that we've had
that kind of conversation
about our thinking
en masse as humanity,
we're going to start drilling
down a bit into the subject
that you talk about
in your book, which
has to do with unhealed
trauma, but also,
the rise in abuse,
and in suicide,
drug use, alcoholism-- a lot
of trauma being inflicted right
now, some of it self-inflicted.
So this is where you come
in and your work comes in.
So you notice that
a lot of people
come to you with unhealed
trauma to begin with,
and this starts, essentially,
inspiring chronic illness
in their bodies.
Where do you even start
pulling the thread?
As multi-dimensional creatures,
like I said, in the open,
all these things matter.
Someone comes into you.
Say, they have-- oh, I have
chronic, horrible digestion
issues.
It's gone on for years.
I don't know what to do.
Where do you even start?
DALE: That's a great question.
So there are current traumas,
as you're pointing out.
Sometimes people
are reacting because
of what's happening right now.
And this doesn't sound
very polite to say,
but that's easier to deal with,
that if they're triggering
old trauma because maybe it's
just stop eating the Twinkies,
or take your digestive
enzymes, or turn off the news,
or take a walk.
You can take a walk.
Get a dog, and it's going
to make you take walks.
So I like to start
simplistically.
So if we can do
something simple,
something here something
now-- get on the phone,
learn how to use Zoom,
learn how to text, whatever
it is, let's start there.
But you know, 99% of the
time, that's not what it is.
REGINA: Right.
DALE: It's not.
REGINA: We're going to go for
the deeper one, long-term,
chronic.
DALE: We got to go
for the deeper stuff.
Exactly.
So then we have to find what
I call the "causal issue."
Like, what's the root
of today's symptoms?
When are they?
Where are they?
And again, I like to just
go backward in time slowly.
Is it from your adulthood?
Is it childhood?
Is it the womb?
And those go farther back.
Is it past life?
But we also have to splinter
off sometimes and go,
is it in your ancestry?
Because we have 14
generations, at least,
of our ancestors' memories
in our epigenetics.
REGINA: So I'm glad we talked
about that because we're
talking about this mind, spirit,
physical matrix, including
the chakra system,
which we're going
to get into in a little bit.
So when you start unwinding it,
you're going all the way back.
You go all the way back
into the ancestral part.
OK.
So why do we keep attracting
the same kind of trauma
over and over, even though,
now, someone's come to you--
and you kind of work
your way through this,
and then they call
you up a year later,
eh, eh, it's happening
again, or yeah, I
ended up in the exact same
kind of relationship again.
So what is it, looking
at us from a more--
almost a mechanical
model, in a sense--
that keeps drawing back
the same circumstance
and energetic patterns?
DALE: Negative trances.
We're cavemen.
Think about caveman--
cavewomen, cavemen--
let's be gender-neutral,
whatever we want to be.
You're not so scared of
the gentle spring rain.
You're scared of
the lightning storm.
You're not scared
of the pussycats.
You're scared of this
saber-toothed tiger.
So our energetic system
and our biology--
our vagus nerve, our
microbiome, our chakras, which
are subtle energy centers--
we can't live our purpose.
If we don't stay alive.
I mean, we can't get to
our spiritual purpose.
We can't get to the happy stuff.
We can't get to the, I'm a
healer, I'm helping people,
I'm going to do this, I'm going
to do that if we're not still
alive.
So we have to keep
the body alive.
So almost everything
for thousands of years
has been programmed into us
genetically, epigenetically,
even into our chakras, the outer
wheel of our energy centers
to stay.
First, live.
And unfortunately,
living, survival means fit
with the clan, don't be
weird, don't stand out,
don't be the voice saying--
we can do this in
a peaceful place--
get stoned, right?
Or if you do the
right thing, you
don't believe you're
going to survive.
It's all programming.
I think it takes a long time--
and I'm still working
on it to figure out--
there's a different
programming inside of us.
There's a spiritual
programming, there's
a dharmic programming that's
about goodness, that's
about love, that's about all
these things that we need
to make real, not conceptual.
But so far, we're
raised in families--
97% are dysfunctional.
I learned that 30 years ago.
REGINA: True.
DALE: I think it's
more than true.
And we just go, you know what--
if I'm going to get to 18,
I'm just going to go
with the negative.
I'm going to do whatever
it's going to take.
And then we don't change at 18.
We just keep going.
So what you give off is
what you draw to you.
Most of what we give off--
99.99%-- of all
energy is subtle.
It's invisible.
And most of that is negative,
just like most of our thoughts
are negative.
We don't know what
we're thinking.
It's just happening
inside of us,
and it's not going to change
until we decide to figure out
how to change it,
which we can do,
but we have to figure out how.
REGINA: Hints?
DALE: I know.
REGINA: People are going to
be saying, wait a minute.
You're just leaving
us hanging on that?
DALE: I know.
I'm not going to
leave us hanging.
So this is why I love
working with chakras.
I know that most of my
family thinks I'm bizarre.
They tease me now
that I like chakras.
Like, I sat at a family function
not too long ago, and my uncle,
who was drinking-- and he's
super funny when he drinks--
he was like, you know, there's
a pyramid out in North Dakota.
You should come out there and
just bring the aliens on down.
And he wasn't being mean.
He was like, you're just
an oddball, but I like you.
So I'll just say something
odd that probably makes sense
to you.
I like chakras because--
this is the geeky chakra me--
there's two wheels
to every chakra.
There's an outer wheel--
we got tons of chakras.
I don't care how many people--
you can work with one.
Doesn't make any
difference to me.
The outer wheel
holds the survival.
It holds the programs.
It holds the, I'm going to
get you before you get me.
It holds, I'm going to do
my fifth alcoholic husband.
It holds, this is
what's comfortable.
I'm going to fit in.
You know what-- there's an
inner wheel to every chakra.
It has this sort of
beautiful absolute light.
It's a real light, science says.
I like to quote science
because otherwise, people
think I make it all up.
REGINA: Right.
DALE: So there's an
absolute line in there
that holds positive
programs where love wins.
So sometimes, all we really need
to do is go, I have it inside.
I'm going to breathe inside.
I'm going to use what that
Cyndi Dale woman said.
I'm going to imagine I
have these energy centers,
I'm going to breathe into
the middle of my heart,
I'm going to feel
what's good, I'm
going to give permission
for it to grow.
And you know what?
It'll push out the negative.
It'll push it out because
it's inside of us.
So it's not just
about meditating.
You kind of need
to know what you're
doing when you're
meditating if you
want to grow this sort of
beautiful process for yourself.
REGINA: That's lovely.
It's very simple and
very direct because you
don't have to really buy
into too much of anything.
You just say, OK, even if
I just have one big one.
DALE: You don't have to be
religious or not religious.
REGINA: It's right here.
It's in the heart.
Let's do that.
DALE: Easy.
Easy.
REGINA: And that
one alone starts
shifting the frequencies of your
thoughts and your physiology
as well.
DALE: It does.
It does.
REGINA: Yeah.
DALE: Well, if you
look back at time--
I look back at my life--
everything big was simple.
It's when I finally decided,
OK, I'm not going to eat wheat,
or I really am going to
meditate from my heart
and share this
light, or I really
am going to stay away and
not marry an alcoholic again.
It comes down to simple.
We don't have to
contort ourselves.
We just don't.
It's kind of fun to
do that sometimes
because we can feel
powerful the more we do.
But I think it's simple.
Bring good energy up
through your feet.
The Earth holds good energy.
REGINA: Absolutely.
DALE: The stars
hold good energy.
Picture it, feel it,
think it, bring it up.
Feel it in the body.
There's heavenly
energy up there.
There's beautiful
I don't care if you
call it "magnetics."
call it the "sun god."
I don't care if you call
it "streams of grace,"
which I like to call it.
Just image it, make it gold.
That works.
Make it pink.
I don't care.
Bring it into the body, and
feel it, and you can use it.
We kind of have to feel it.
REGINA: That's the big thing.
It can't just be conceptual.
And it turns out that with
all of the various schools
of new thought, in
the end, it always
came down to this one,
oftentime, missing ingredient
or missing step.
And it was down to
not just seeing it,
but you have to be able to
feel that moving through you.
And just the difference
between feelings and emotions
can oftentimes
trip people up too.
And so yeah.
Go ahead.
DALE: Exactly.
Well, again, it's not
just about feeling sad.
If you do feel sad,
cry, and get on with it.
And move it to a
healthier place,
because I believe every
feeling has a message,
and if you follow
it, it'll get you
to a place of some form
of joy, maybe just relief,
like thank God that's over.
True.
But it has to be in the body.
But the body's so cool.
It has these photons.
It has quantum-physics
particles of light in it
that can reach
everywhere at once.
My favorite part of
the body is that it
has these little phonons--
P-H-O-N-O-N-S. I talk about
it in my "Energy Healing
for Trauma."
They're these subatomic
particles there,
and they're created
every time a heart beats.
every time there's
pressure in the body.
And you know what they share?
In the body is whatever
you're focusing on inside.
So if you're sitting
there going, woe is me,
I'm not lovable,
which, come on--
I mean, we're human.
We're going to do that sometime.
So have a pity party,
and get on with it.
Give yourself an hour
to feel that way,
and then just say, not anymore.
REGINA: Right.
DALE: Do it, and get over it.
But the more we're able to
sense gratitude, goodness--
OK, maybe that person wasn't
a jerk because it's me--
maybe that's about
them, not about me--
The more we're able to go
to some form of positivity,
those little phonons
will share positivity.
And we're healthier.
It's proven.
We get healthier when
we think healthier.
REGINA: Absolutely.
And as you say,
oftentimes, our minds are--
just they just randomly
have negative thoughts or--
DALE: I know.
REGINA: --you know, just
useless, more than anything,
even just random and
kind of neutral thoughts.
But we're not taking
the time to program them
in the direction of the energy
we'd like to see manifest.
DALE: You said that
in the beginning.
You talked about that
when you introduced it.
REGINA: Yeah.
DALE: Kind of our talk
today is discipline.
I mean, I don't like discipline
any more than anyone else does,
but I get up every morning.
I get in the car, I put my dogs
in there, I go to the dog park.
And now I wouldn't be able
to function without it.
Even here, I got to sleep
in because my dogs weren't
waking me up because I'm here.
REGINA: Because they
want to go to the park.
DALE: I know, but I still
got up, and I walked outside.
So we are responsible for--
even if we have to trick
ourselves into a good habit,
reward yourself
for a good habit,
but not with a worse habit--
just start.
Just get one thing going.
REGINA: Absolutely.
OK, now, we're focusing on
autoimmune because this is big.
And it's getting bigger?
DALE: Tons.
Tons.
There's different statistics.
I read that anywhere between
30% to 70% of all Americans,
probably people
in the world, will
have some kind of chronic
condition some time
in their life.
So, OK, so we know that
there's infections,
we know that our
food is inflammatory,
we know that there's these
little mast cells that come out
of our bone marrow
that take over,
and then we get inflammation.
So we know some of what
happens on the physical level,
but I like to ask
what's happening
on the invisible level.
And I do believe
autoimmune dysfunctions--
I would include allergies
and addictions in there, too,
because it's a way of
heart being harmed--
and basically,
autoimmune dysfunctions
occur because our immune
system is beating up
our healthy cells.
But I don't think our immune
system is trying to do that.
I don't think we're
trying to be an addict.
trying to have allergies.
So what's happening?
Typically, it
starts with trauma.
And you know what--
when we're traumatized,
when there's an injury from
outside to inside, whether we
know it or not, there's
energy forces coming into us.
Maybe it's a baseball
that hits us on the head,
but there's a physical
force that gets in.
But I believe a lot of
other people's energies
enter us when we're
being traumatized.
We can't process energies
that are not our own.
REGINA: Now, then you're getting
into incompatible frequencies
together.
DALE: Yes, you are.
That's the key.
And if we don't process
our own reactions
to a problem or
a trauma, now, we
have a buildup of
our own frequencies,
of our own feelings,
and our own emotions.
And now we're going
to be in trouble
because we can't sort
through what's ours
and what's not ours.
So sooner or later,
the body's going
to go, OK, I'm just going
to beat up on everything.
I'm just going to try
to drive out what's not
been dealt with that's my own.
I'm going to try to drive
out these energies that
aren't my own.
And guess what-- we have
an autoimmune dysfunction.
We just have an
overactive system
that doesn't know where the
real enemy is because it's all
seen as an enemy.
REGINA: Interesting.
DALE: Isn't it fascinating?
REGINA: It is.
So how does one go about
sorting through that?
Because it is becoming
more prominent.
It's on the rise-- autoimmune.
DALE: It's not fast.
I do healing work, but I
don't promise people this
is going to happen overnight.
Sometimes it does.
As soon as I tell a client this
is going to take a long time,
they're the person that, like,
has the overnight success.
But you have to go
through the process.
So I typically try
to look for, what's
the easiest trauma
to get a hold of?
What's uppermost?
What do they most remember?
Is it when they were two,
or when they were 10,
or what happened with
their last wife or husband?
You just have to start
somewhere where there's
some emotional engagement,
help them feel it,
process it, figure out
they didn't deserve it.
Try to uncover what
they might have
been subconsciously thinking.
If you can get your toe
in, you can start on whined
to the older, deeper traumas.
And that has to happen before
the body can be convinced
it doesn't need to
have this overreaction
to environmental
factors, to foods, to,
I've got to have the alcohol,
I have to have the opioids.
So I think we have to start
with a trauma the person can
get a hold of.
You start somewhere,
and it does unravel.
If you can stay with
yourself and get
somebody loving
to stay with you,
it actually will
start to unravel.
REGINA: So the
question, then, is,
you feel it almost always
requires a good facilitator?
It's difficult for people
to unravel it on their own?
DALE: Yes.
By the time you have an
autoimmune occurrence,
or a deep unwieldy addiction,
or a lot of allergies,
I think we need help.
And we are on this planet
with billions of other people.
There's somebody there who
can help and who can care.
Maybe you need several
people in different orders
or whatever it is.
Maybe you just need
somebody to sit
with you so you feel accompanied
and loved enough to go deeper.
It's so hard to
do it on our own.
And maybe you just need to go
to a 12-step program to start.
So you quit whatever keeps
cycling the reaction.
I mean, I've been in many,
many 12-step programs.
I'm sort of a 12-step fanatic.
And once in a while, I call
into Al-Anon or this or that
because it's used--
and they're free, which is
nice, because otherwise,
this stuff can take a long
time and a lot of money--
and just hearing somebody else's
story that's like, well, OK,
I was feeling down and I
went for the ice cream,
and then I didn't--
so that can help me say, Cindy,
you go for the ice cream--
I actually don't go
for the ice cream--
I go for the cookies--
you have a tendency
to go for the cookies
when you're feeling scared.
If you don't go for
the cookies, you're
going to deal with the fear.
And you're going
to get to a place
where you can work
through the fear
and do some self-healing
work, and then you're
going to be in a
better, healthier place.
And you're going to
feel better, and you're
going to feel stronger.
You know what happens?
The inflammation goes
down in the body.
Your negative emotions
start to disappear.
You're not shaming yourself.
You're not in a shame cycle.
I do think it's
helpful to have people
however you can get to them.
REGINA: Now what
about the energies
that are prevailing around us?
So we have our own that we're
generating and creating.
We have our own subconscious,
our own traumas.
But right now, you
can almost say--
and we're going to get
into the notion of viruses
in some of the beings that
help facilitate this--
but prior to that, let's talk
about the energy at large.
We now feel we're being
bathed in a very chaotic soup.
Some people will call
these very dark times.
Right?
DALE: Yes.
REGINA: So how is the
prevailing energy affecting us?
DALE: It's so strong.
I mean, the most
self-aware person right
now, usually, has to sit
back and go, is this mine?
Is this Memorex?
Or am I picking up
what's in the culture?
Because it's scary.
People are scared.
And when you start to get--
I typically call them "thought
forms" or "emotional forms."
They're energetics.
It doesn't even mean
somebody is doing this to us.
But when you have enough of the
masses frightened, or scared,
or angry-- now anger's
starting to take over, right?
First, we did a lot of fear,
now we're doing a lot of anger,
now we're doing a lot of rage--
whatever it is, that's
a seeking of power.
Fear is like, I'm not safe.
How am I going to get safe?
It's very hard not to go
with it because that's
invisible energy.
Yeah, you can turn on
the news and see somebody
doing something scary, right?
But it's in the air literally.
There's subtle energies.
There everywhere.
And so we really
need to pay attention
to what I call our "own
subtle boundaries."
We have to empower
who we are inside.
We have to visualize, or
feel, or be who we are,
and take the actions every
day that help us be stronger.
Some of it just comes
down to electrical energy.
We're electrical beings,
and the more electricity
we have going through our body--
which requires moving,
eating healthy, thinking
positive thoughts-- the
more electromagnetic fields
we have outside of us, the less
apt we are to pick up what's
hanging in the atmosphere-- the
fear, the anger, the doomsday
philosophy.
REGINA: By strengthening
your own field.
DALE: You strengthen
your own field,
and you won't pick it
up or catch it quicker.
I can feel when I'm around
somebody who's in terror.
I take a step back.
You know a really simple
way to deal with it?
I teach this to my young people.
You cross your arms
over your solar plexus.
You cut off the openness
of your energy field,
and whatever somebody
else is going
through that's overwhelming you,
you're not going to pick it up.
Test anxiety-- I
tell kids do this--
put an arm over your stomach.
You're not going to pick up
everybody else's text anxiety.
You can deal with your own.
You can't do with
a room of 30 kids.
REGINA: Well, this
might also explain
why people, when they
get into a debate
her argument with
someone, almost
automatically go like this.
DALE: Yes, they do,
or cross their feet.
REGINA: Trying to
protect themselves.
DALE: Exactly
REGINA: Right?
DALE: But it does work.
REGINA: Yeah.
DALE: So it's an
overwhelming time.
We've got to each focus on
what keeps us from bringing
in what's not our own.
REGINA: And also, I think,
just to take it a step further
before we segue into the next
subject, which is intriguing,
is that when we have this
mass anxiety, rage, fear,
whatever it is, one of the
terms that is often used
is "egregore."
You're creating an
actual massive entity,
feeding it, giving it its own
characteristics, which becomes
real in another dimension.
DALE: It does.
REGINA: Now you have to
contend with this massive being
that you've created out of rage.
DALE: Exactly.
It is like a being.
It's a consciousness,
and it grows.
And it runs thing.
REGINA: Yes, it does.
DALE: And science is saying
that, at least mathematically,
the brain fires in at least
11 dimensions simultaneously.
So some of what we
refuse to deal with--
I usually think of the
lower dimensions as denser,
the higher dimensions
is somewhat more light--
but you can have bad stuff
in a higher dimension.
You can have skewed thoughts,
and concepts, and philosophies.
I mean, come on.
The lower dimensions
are really weighty,
so if we don't acknowledge
that we're doing this
or it's happening, it just
kind of goes into the corners
and strikes us when--
REGINA: When you're feeding
it, unconsciously feeding it.
DALE: Yeah, exactly.
REGINA: OK, so let's look
at the notion of viruses.
You say this in your book,
that viruses are often
moved and motivated by
dark forces around us--
sometimes other
entities, disincarnate
beings and so forth.
Let's talk about that.
DALE: I perceive that.
And I believe it because
approaching people with viruses
with that point of view--
if I'm able to help
them disentangle
from some kind of entity
or energy outside of them--
REGINA: And it could be
this egregore, so to speak.
DALE: It can be the egregore.
It can be anything-- an arcane.
It can be a family system.
It can be a family
spirit that wants
to still control the family for
generations and generations.
It could be a part of us
from a different life.
We don't always know what it is.
But I assume at this
point that if we
have a virus occupying us--
I don't care if
it's Epstein-Barr,
SARS-CoV-2 SARS-CoV-1--
whatever it might be, it's
connected and empowered
through what we call a
"cord" in this field,
through some sort of--
like, a garden hose to
something outside of us.
And it's that outside energy or
entity is feeding the virus--
because viruses aren't smart.
They have either RNA
or DNA inside of them,
but scientists don't even really
think they're actually alive.
They don't know what they are.
They don't even say
they're living beings.
They're like, they're
sort of alive.
They're sort of not.
They just carry
these chromosomes
that take over your cells.
So where's the
brain of the virus?
Guess what.
It's outside.
So knowing that, you can
send images of light.
You can just be willing to
be freed up from whatever
is connected to you.
You can be willing
to say, I don't
know what I'm getting out of--
subconsciously, maybe getting
out or having this being,
like, have a hold in my body,
but I want to be done with it.
And you can collapse
viruses that way.
REGINA: Interesting.
And let's talk
about bacteria, too,
because you say that
they store emotions.
And then we'll get
through this because I
want to get into the nature
of the aura and so forth.
DALE: Excellent.
Yeah.
REGINA: But let's talk
about bacteria for a moment.
DALE: Yeah.
REGINA: They store emotions,
and it can be dense.
DALE: Yes.
REGINA: And they also
have a positive function.
DALE: They do.
I think they store our emotions.
REGINA: Yes.
DALE: I think they
store the emotions we
haven't let ourselves
feel or we've never
had the chance to feel.
So many people say
that they don't
start dealing with their trauma
or their childhood issues
until they're safe.
These days, we
better do it sooner.
REGINA: Yeah.
DALE: But they get
to a safe place,
and all the sudden, all
their memories come back,
and they remember being abused.
And oftentimes, they
find out they've
had bacteria in their systems
for, hey, most of their lives.
Well, they're helping you.
They're storing what you
need to get around to feel.
So hello, feel the feelings,
and maybe the bacteria
don't need to be
there operating.
REGINA: What about the positive
bacteria, the positive effects.
DALE: Well, there are
positive bacteria.
REGINA: Yes.
DALE: And I think what
they're processing--
I think they will
help you process
the feelings you are feeling.
So I think of them as,
like, little holders
of the positive feelings, like
your joy, your satisfaction.
Again, so it stands to
reason that, especially
in your microbiome,
in your gut, when
you feed the positive
bacteria your happy thoughts,
your happy feelings, like,
you notice, oh, my gosh,
this person smiled at me.
The more you pay attention
to the good stuff,
that feeds the
positive bacteria.
So you can change your
microbiome just need
to be aware of what's good.
REGINA: Wonderful.
OK.
Now we're going to segue
further in to the whole system
that you have of the 12 chakras,
and the 12 layers of the aura,
and that when we teased
about earlier, the eighth.
But you've said something
very intriguing in your book--
that we can access universal
messages or knowledge
through DNA wormholes.
Now, what does that mean?
DALE: I know.
Isn't that a great phrase.
REGINA: Yeah, it's great.
DALE: I just love
stuff like that.
When I see that on the internet,
I'm like, I'm going there.
All Right.
So there's been research,
especially in Russia, that--
they've been able
to look at the DNA--
and when somebody
has a bright idea,
like a consciousness-raising
idea-- like, wow,
I don't need to be my parents,
or I can love my parents
and not be them at the same
time, or I can change my life,
or there's a cool thing
that could happen--
there's light.
There's wormholes
that come off the DNA.
Those wormholes connect into
a greater field of light.
There's so many names
for that field of light.
You could call it
"God," "consciousness,"
"absolute light," "the
zero-point field,"
"the vacuum," this and that.
But it literally opens up.
It reaches out into a greater
field of energy that stores
anything, everything possible.
I usually think that
that particular field
holds virtual light or
what could come into being.
and as soon as
you connect to it,
what could come into
being enters to the DNA
through the wormhole, and
it can alter the actual DNA
programming.
REGINA: So it's not necessarily
just a light bulb going on.
It's really desirable if
it's a conscious thought,
a conscious acknowledgement,
and recognition of something.
DALE: Yes.
You want to get it.
REGINA: Yeah.
DALE: And I'm sure you've
had this experience.
I know when my head is
trying to get something.
And it's easy for me to
think I'm getting it,
but I know I'm not.
REGINA: Right.
Right.
DALE: You just write
it over and over.
You do the affirmations, and
you go, I so don't believe that.
I mean, be honest with yourself.
I remember years ago
when people would say,
you should get out
there and date again.
And I'm like, I'm not ready.
Well, you should be ready.
And it's like,
well, I'm not ready.
So I'm not going to walk
around going, I'm ready,
when I'm not ready.
When it flashes-- we
have to work on it,
but when it flashes, that's
when those bright ideas
come in and alter our
physical functions.
They can change our DNA.
They can change our thoughts.
They can change our attitudes.
REGINA: OK, let's
launch into the notion
of these layers of the aura
that we work with, and also,
the chakras.
And people are probably
most intrigued with eight
through 12 because they're
fairly familiar with one
through 7.
So let's start wherever you'd
like to on that, and what
the eight through to 12 are
about, how they function,
on what level, what they serve.
But also, I want to get
into that eighth chakra--
I mean that eighth level of the
aura, which you say is black.
Most people-- oh,
that's counterintuitive.
What do you mean you
know black layer?
DALE: I know.
REGINA: And then I want to
ask a couple things that
are more personally oriented
about that, experience-wise.
Yeah.
DALE: Great.
Perfect.
So yeah.
We have seven in-body chakras.
My system talks about those.
Sir Arthur Avalon forever
talked about them.
He also said that
there were only six.
People don't read
the fine print.
And then he said
there's all kinds
of systems with up to,
like, hundreds, so whatever.
I saw these as a kid,
so I've labeled them.
I believe the eighth chakra
is right above the head,
and it also connects in through
our thymus, which, of course,
is an autoimmune immune gland.
And boy, wouldn't we want
that active right now?
That's our mystical
shaman chakra.
That's about our past
lives, and our future,
and it's when we
do journeying in.
It's a really cool chakra.
REGINA: And a lot of people
attribute those traits
to the seventh chakra.
You say, no.
DALE: Exactly.
REGINA: It's above that.
DALE: No.
Let's divide this up.
Seventh is spiritual.
It's lovely, but you don't
want to be doing everything
through your seventh chakra.
You're going to overuse it.
Let it do what it does.
Let the eighth do what it does.
I love the ninth chakra.
It's about an arm's
length about the head.
It's gold.
It holds symbols
that, if they go into
if, they're brought
down in, especially
through the diaphragm, into the
body, they can heal the body,
they can heal your mind.
They can heal you because
they're your symbols.
So they're the shape-- sort
of like codes from your soul--
that enable healing in the body.
I've seen it happen over
and over, even on animals.
It can help heal animals.
I mean, aren't
these cool chakras?
Why would you not want
to know about them?
10th chakra--
underneath the feet,
about a foot and a 1/2 in
the ground under the feet--
that's the genetic, the
ancestral, the natural.
That connects you to
nature, the environment,
I think to the cosmos as well.
The 11th chakra is really strong
around the hands and the feet.
And I think it's way out,
also, in the auric field.
But it also lives in
our connective tissue.
And most healers are super
big into connective tissue
because it holds memories.
It holds our memories
and ancestors' memories.
So this is the
commanding chakra.
I believe somebody who really
is able to channel and handle
their 11th chakra can command
natural and supernatural
energies.
Jesus walking on the
water, raising the dead.
I'm not there yet.
I'm being really honest.
I'm working on my 11th chakra.
But that's what it is.
REGINA: But also using
hands on for healing.
DALE: Totally.
Yeah, or blessing somebody,
just saying, hey--
or stopping somebody who wants
to attack you, just saying,
let's be peaceful right now.
Think about that.
Gandhi-- no we're
going to be nonviolent.
We're not going to go here.
I mean, you can feel my
hand giving that energy off.
The 12th is lovely.
It's unique to each person.
It's around the field.
I access it through the
inside of the heart.
It's sort of the outer
skein of your own spirit.
I love working with
the 12th to help
people get a sense of
their own very, very
special spiritual gift.
Like, what's really
different about them?
What ability do they
have no one else has?
That's what you mine
and excavate there.
So these, to me,
are magical chakras.
REGINA: Yes.
I love your chakra system.
So let's talk about the levels
of the aura, and explain those.
And then tell us why the
eighth level is black.
And is the eighth level--
are these aligned with the same
number in the chakra system?
DALE: Yes.
REGINA: So that would
mean your eighth chakra is
aligned with the black layer.
DALE: Exactly.
REGINA: OK, so what
does that mean?
DALE: Yes.
So I personally
believe-- and people
can believe what they
want-- but I personally
believe the auric fields are
extensions of the chakras.
So I think your first
auric field in the hip
that-- it's right next
to the skin-- it's red,
and so the first auric field
in and next to the skin
is also red.
So they're not actually,
always the same
because your outer
field can hold
an issue that doesn't make it
all the way into the chakra.
But the outer fields are usually
programmed by the chakras,
but you're programmed
by all kinds of things.
REGINA: Right, by life.
DALE: Exactly.
But I also find, outside
of the first auric field,
the 10th auric field comes next.
That was the brown one--
I didn't even give the color
before-- under the feet that's
about ancestry, because
that's the layer that
holds our history, our
ancestors' history.
You can look in
there to see anything
that's ever been done to
you, that you've ever done,
et cetera.
REGINA: Well, the
interesting thing about brown
is brown is a very
grounded and stable color.
DALE: It is.
REGINA: You'll see
people that work in more
conservative industries.
In the days past, when men
wore suits to work, oftentimes,
like my father,
in his generation,
in the world of insurance,
they'd wear brown suits--
very practical work,
very grounded work.
And your ancestral memories
are practical and grounded.
DALE: They're real.
REGINA: That makes sense.
DALE: Yes.
And we're here on this Earth,
so don't we want to be grounded
and picking up on what
nature needs, As well as what
we need from it?
REGINA: Right.
DALE: And then they go in order.
Then we go two
all the way to 12.
And as you go
through these, you've
got two, which is orange;
and three, which is yellow;
and et cetera, you get
to eight, which is black.
And people get so
scared of black.
It's like, oh, that's dark.
That's evil.
The eighth chakra is black.
It's the shaman chakra,
the mystical chakra.
Your eighth auric
field is black.
Black attracts energy.
And I've met a lot of shamans,
like real-life shamans
in the jungle in the
savannas-- shamans.
They're about power.
And often, they take people's
energies on and into them
in order to help
the person heal.
So that's sort of what
that black color indicates
is that we have the
capability to absorb.
We can absorb what we need,
we can absorb what's not ours,
we can connect to spirits we
can bring them into our bodies,
for better or worse.
So black-- I like to call
black the "power color."
But it mainly works
through absorption.
Does that make sense?
REGINA: It does.
But what about, also, the notion
that black is also the void,
it's also the place of plague.
DALE: It is the void.
REGINA: It's the
darkness under the soil,
it's the womb where things
can be made manifest
and generate from this quiet.
DALE: Yes.
And that's how
shamans ultimately
work is that they're experts
at going into the vacuum state,
or the void--
which, I just used the word or
the phrase a few minutes ago,
"virtual light" or
"virtual energy"--
what's in the void but all
possibilities-- it's not empty.
REGINA: No, it's not empty.
DALE: It has everything in it.
REGINA: It does.
And on a couple of occasions--
a few occasions, I suppose--
I went into the void
through various--
whatever ceremony I
was doing or whatnot.
But in each case, the void--
it was like a void--
it was darkness all
around, absolutely quiet,
and absolute plenum, filled
with everything, all knowledge.
Everything was available.
Everything was possible.
Everything could be known.
But your perception is you're
sitting in this incredibly
quiet, inky black place.
And it's beautiful.
DALE: It's beautiful.
And we create from
here, so shamans absorb,
and they help you recreate.
REGINA: Right, yeah.
DALE: And I have a friend.
His name is Dr.
Michael Scroggins.
He's, like, way
too smart for me.
He's got like 18 degrees.
He's probably got 24 since
I last talked to him.
He talks about the big bang,
which is sort of a void.
It's like a collapse
of everything,
which is what a void is.
But he says that you have
to have frequencies outside
of a void that match frequencies
in a void for something
to come to light.
So if you think about it,
a shaman can help people--
a shaman can hold
what somebody wants,
and that can stir within
the void of the person
something that could
manifest, something
that could come to light,
and their life can change.
In there is a cancer-free place.
In there is a
tumor-free capability.
And so we can do
that for each other.
I think that's what we're
supposed to do for each other.
REGINA: Yeah, it's
interesting the way
we label these
experiences and the way
we label even
light, whether we're
talking about light
or absence of light,
and how we're utilizing them
based on these patterns of fear
versus on what their
actual potential is.
DALE: Exactly.
REGINA: Because it can
actually be flipped.
Like, in my experience,
going into the void--
it's absolute.
There's everything there.
You need nothing.
And yet at the same time, if I'm
going to, say, have a seizure,
everything's white light, white
light overcoming everything,
blasts of white light
before going unconscious.
DALE: Exactly.
REGINA: So this is
kind of flipped.
DALE: I know.
But it's all there, and how
do we judge how good or bad?
REGINA: Exactly.
DALE: There isn't.
REGINA: So we need to
take those labels off.
DALE: We do.
REGINA: And I ask that
because when I read "black,"
I thought I want you
to help explain that
to people not to be
afraid of the dark
in the purest, truest sense.
DALE: Exactly.
Exactly.
REGINA: That's different than
dense energies that are sucking
you down and pulling you under.
DALE: Exactly.
It's potential, and
it's inside all of us.
We come from the void, and we're
called out of the void too.
So which side is best?
Being both.
REGINA: Yeah, being both.
OK, now, because I
want to get to this
before the end of
our time together,
one thing you talk about is
the subtle-energy toolkit.
Talk about it in general terms.
DALE: So a subtle-energy
toolkit are really
just a few tools easy
and handy you can use
to shift your subtle energy.
You can use it to activate
the healthy, positive joyous
energies inside or deal
with any negative you have
or that is coming at you.
So in the book "Energy Healing
for Trauma," da, da, da, da
da--
I talk about a few
easy techniques.
Like, one is so simple--
just affirm your own spirit.
Just start with knowing
you're an eternal being,
every part of you is your
essence, and it's all good.
So if you just
acknowledge that--
and if you're with somebody,
acknowledge that they, too,
are an essential being--
I mean, they're always that,
no matter what else they are,
whatever comes on the surface
or ripples over the waves.
And then I, after
those two steps,
typically then call on what
I would call the "greater
spirit."
I don't care what
word people use.
I don't care--
"God," "goodness,"
"the goodness of humanity."
It doesn't make any difference.
But if we can open to something
bigger, we can become bigger.
We can become more
than we already are.
So I always use that tool.
And I believe that all the
energies we need are available.
I call them "streams of grace."
Scientists might call
them "scalar waves"--
maybe not most scientists,
but some scientists.
Everything we need is available.
And if we can see it
going to somebody,
we offer it to
somebody, we bring them
into ourselves, boom.
We are a tool for grace,
for love in motion,
love that makes a difference.
REGINA: I love that.
Finally, one thing
in all of this--
because you talk about
it in your book--
with everything going
on, the craziness,
having to kind of
accept each other's
foibles, and
vulnerabilities, and such,
the role of forgiveness
and healing the field.
DALE: It's all
about forgiveness.
It is.
If we can forgive, we detach.
I don't mean detach
in a negative way.
We separate out.
We can be who we are.
We let the other be
who they are and.
The biggest thing
is forgive yourself.
Forgive yourself.
REGINA: Final thoughts
before we say goodbye.
DALE: I just want to say
the word "grace" again.
REGINA: I love your
streams of grace.
DALE: I know.
I love them.
REGINA: Yes.
DALE: It's love in motion.
Just be love in motion.
REGINA: Well, I've
said this before
in a couple other interviews,
that the physicist William
Taylor says it to him--
the universe is filled
with a universal solvent,
and that universal
solvent that makes
all things possible
in all dimensions
is what we know as love.
And that feeds into your
streams of grace perfectly.
So Cyndi, thank you so much.
I love your energy.
I love your information.
I love the simplicity
of your toolkit.
DALE: Thank you.
So be it.
REGINA: Yeah, so be it.
Again, the title of the book
is "Energy Healing," which you
can find at major booksellers.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]